# Reducing Child Mortality if Africa - Living Goods
## High level description of project.
**What Living Goods does**: Living Goods gives Community Health Promoters (CHPs) in Uganda and Kenya basic health training. The CHPs visit households in their communities, registering pregnancies, giving basic medical advice (pregnancy best practices, how to administer medications), making diagnoses, and referring to clinics when necessary.

**The data**: CHPs record data on smartphones. The data is generated by encounters between CHPs and households, including pregnancy registrations, visits during pregnancy, referrals, symptoms, and diagnoses. There is also some demographic data and other metadata.
## What question or problem are you trying to solve?
1. How can LG identify critical conditions and plan CHPs visits accordingly, given the scarcity of the resource CHP.
2. Does LG collect data that actually help achieving the goal defined in point 1, or should LG include other more important variables in its data collection protocol? If yes which could they be and how could they collect them?
3. How are mortality rates distributed geographically?
  - Are there areas that present significant differences from the overall values? If yes are we able to hypothesize possible reasons for that?
  - Is the availability of medical infrastructures in these areas a possible factor?
  - Mobility networks?
  - A general scarcity of CHPs?
  - Are these communities culturally different from the others and for some reasons less incline to receive conventional help or to be treated with conventional medicines?
  - Have they access to water, food and the likes?
## How will you present your work?
  - Visualization of significant findings through slides
## What are your data sources?
There are 15 files in the current data set.

[Here](./projects/living_goods/documents/ERD.jpg) a link to a very rudimentary ERD of the database to see how the tables join. The most important tables are those under the *two branches* **family**, with variables reporting general living conditions of each household, and **pregnancy** with data collected during pregnancy and the first 5 years after that.

* [assessment.csv](./projects/living_goods/data/assessment_header.csv) 287349 rows
* [assessment_follow_up.csv](./projects/living_goods/data/assessment_follow_up_header.csv) 164657 rows
* [branch.csv](./projects/living_goods/data/branch_header.csv) 21 rows
* [chw.csv](./projects/living_goods/data/chw_header.csv) 2427 rows
* [community_event.csv](./projects/living_goods/data/community_event_header.csv) 5844 rows
* [family.csv](./projects/living_goods/data/family_header.csv) 246432 rows
* [family_reg_survey.csv](./projects/living_goods/data/family_reg_survey_header.csv) 246432 rows
* [family_survey.csv](./projects/living_goods/data/family_survey_header.csv) 94626 rows
* [it_support.csv](./projects/living_goods/data/it_support_header.csv) 94 rows
* [ovc_survey.csv](./projects/living_goods/data/ovc_survey_header.csv) 708 rows
* [people.csv](./projects/living_goods/data/people_header.csv) 622921 rows
* [postnatal_care.csv](./projects/living_goods/data/postnatal_care_header.csv) 65619 rows
* [pregnancy.csv](./projects/living_goods/data/pregnancy_header.csv) 105640 rows
* [pregnancy_referral_follow_up.csv](./projects/living_goods/data/pregnancy_referral_follow_up_header.csv) 22507 rows
* [pregnancy_visit.csv](./projects/living_goods/data/pregnancy_visit_header.csv) 179103 rows

2044380 total records in the data set.
### Outcome variables
There are basically 2 outcomes of interest:

1. **Pregnancy outcome**: this is present directly in the data, precisely the column pregnancy_outcome of the table [postnatal_care](./projects/living_goods/data/postnatal_care_header.csv), under the condition follow_up_count = 1.
2. **Post pregnancy mortality**: this is not directly present in the data and one goal should be to be able to create proxies using the information at disposition to identify serious conditions that could lead to mortality.
## What's your next step towards making this your project.
  - Cleaning and understanding the data
  - Gauging how much signal might be in the data


<br/><br/>
---
# Predicting Win Probability of Sales Opportunities - Trivadis AG
## High level description of project.
Trivadis is an IT service company, consulting customers in the DACH region (Deutschland, Austria, Switzerland).
It offers services that span from infrastructure to business intelligence and education to business consulting.
Leads and opportunities are tracked in its CRM and worked accordingly to a win probability as recorded by each sale person.
## What question or problem are you trying to solve?
1. Estimate probability of conversion of an open opportunity in the sales pipeline
2. If we define a contract as a won opportunity, it would be very interesting to be able to identify relationships between leads and contracts and between activities and contracts. (There is no direct relationship in the data between activities and leads and between leads and opportunities, so a real tracking of this elements through the pipeline is not possible).
3. Sale people enter their win probability in the system and it would be interesting to integrate this, with the model's forecast in a sort of Bayesian update to yield probably an event more accurate prediction.
## How will you present your work?
  - Web app or dashboard that lists all opportunities in the sales pipeline with their win probability
  - Visualization & Presentation - slides would complement the presentation
## What are your data sources?
There are 3 main files in this data set.

* [opportunities.csv](./projects/trivadis/data/opportunities_header.csv) 21222 rows
* [leads.csv](./projects/trivadis/data/leads_header.csv) 17574 rows
* [activities.csv](./projects/trivadis/data/activities_header.csv) 237471 rows
### Outcome variable
Whether or not an opportunity actually converted into a contract is encoded in the status_category column of the [opportunities](./projects/trivadis/data/opportunities_header.csv) data set.
### Considerations
Data is very biased, since most people only enter in the CRM opportunities that have a significant probability of conversion. I have the impression they might work on more leads and opportunities, but don't track all of them in the system.
## What's your next step towards making this your project.
  - Building a minimum viable product


<br/><br/>
---
# Live Sentiment Detection of a Chat Bot to Customer Conversation - Cybrid Industries
## High level description of project.
Cybrid is a chat bot that automation the early stages of interaction with a customer: it's a sales person that never sleeps and works 24/7. Cybrids can be trained through a dashboard where it is taught how to answer specific users questions.
The training is done by the user, associating responses to users classes of questions. The appropriate response is than picked by IBM Watson, who's able to understand user's questions and map them to the appropriate answer.
## What question or problem are you trying to solve?
The answer response pattern is currently not able to detect conversation nuances that could contain precious information about how the contact with the customer is going.
It would be very helpful to be able to detect **sentiment of the conversation** Cybrids has with a user so that the bot could be trained accordingly to respond to different "moods".
## How will you present your work?
  - Web app: it would be very nice to have a live demo that shows the sentiment of a real conversation with the Bot as it happens on the screen
  - Visualization & Presentation - slides would complement the presentation
## What are your data sources?
  - Cybridindustries could provide the history of Bot-User chats, inclusive of lead outcome for a total of almost 10,000 of them.

  - [Here](./projects/cybrids/data/chats_header.csv) is an example of the flattened version of the dataset. Each conversation has an average length of 3.07 messages ranging from 0 to a maximum of 46 (75% percentile still being at just 4 messages for a chat).
## What's your next step towards making this your project.
  - Getting the data and familiarizing with the tool
  - Having another meeting with Cybrid's stakeholders to define more specifically what the desired outcome should be, in order for them to be able to integrate it in their business and profit from it.
